+++
categories = ["Opinion", ""]
date = 2022-09-21T18:30:00Z
description = ""
draft = true
image = "/images/56ef1909-fee7-49fd-bd3f-772eeed3a25c_1_105_c.jpeg"
tags = []
title = "Diversity in educational instutions "
type = "The need for safe spaces for people who are a part of the  LGBTQ+ community remains ever-present, especially in educational institutions.  The paucity of safe spaces and gender-neutral policies for queer students in most educational institutions is a result of the heteronormativity ingrained in our society's ideals, making the world dangerous for LGBTQ people; our society's heteronormative attitude is hurtful and destructive.  The message that being attracted to others of the same or similar gender is inappropriate is sent when this idea is accepted as the norm. Additionally, it conveys the false idea that such people don't exist.  This is homophobic and is immensely problematic since it is emotionally destructive to people of all sexual and romantic identities, besides heterosexuality. Heteronormativity is the belief that heterosexuality is the only normal and natural expression of sexuality.  Creating a safe space for LGBTQ+ individuals is essential and is of utmost importance. Colleges and schools should be safe and welcoming environments for everyone. All classrooms include LGBTQ students, although many aren't yet comfortable being open about their sexualities or gender identities.  Recruiting teachers who are queer affirmative teachers and staff and introducing policies that integrate LGBTQ topics into the curriculum is the first step toward a safer and more inclusive environment.  Schools and universities should establish gender-neutral and sensitive policies and also encourage the students and faculty members to wear badges with their pronouns to avoid misgendering anyone.  This step will not only make the college or school more diverse, but it will also aid in teaching the students and make their interactions more healthy and diverse.   In all honesty, I believe everyone has a right to feel comfortable and express themselves freely in their schools and colleges.   The installation of gender-neutral restrooms, and changing rooms and the introduction of gender-neutral uniforms is another crucial measure that schools and colleges ought to implement because it would benefit students who identify as gender non-conforming, non-binary, gender fluid, or transgender."

+++
The need for safe spaces for people who are part of the LGBTQ+ community remains ever-present, especially in educational institutions.

***

Before I started college, I recall wanting to establish an LGBTQ+ inclusive club to provide a haven for queer individuals, but the paradigm of heteronormativity tragically dashed my ambitions.

When I first had the idea to start a queer club, I reached out to one of my seniors who helped me connect with another senior who shared the same vision as I did. However, I was unaware that they had already created a proposal for an LGBTQ+ club and given it to the Dean of Student Affairs (DSA), who is in charge of such things. However, the DSA initially ignored their proposal for days before finally rejecting it a month later, claiming that "parents wouldn't approve of this."

The world is unsafe for LGBTQ people because heteronormativity has long been ingrained in our society's beliefs; this attitude is harsh and damaging. The message that being attracted to others of the same or similar genders is inappropriate is being sent when this idea is accepted as the norm. Additionally, it conveys the completely false idea that such people don't exist. This is homophobic, and it is extremely problematic because it emotionally harms people of all sexual orientations and romantic identities.

The creation of a safe space for LGBTQ+ people is crucial. There are LGBTQ students in all classrooms at colleges and universities, however many are still hesitant to be open about their sexual orientation or gender identity due. E employing educators that are LGBTQ+ affirming and enacting rules that incorporate LGBTQ+ topics into the curriculum is the first step to creating a safe and welcoming atmosphere. This will not only make the college or school more diverse, but it will also aid in teaching the students and teachers. It will also make the relationship between students and teachers healthier and more diverse.